# Precius: Precision Cooking and Home Kitchen Automation
Precius is an Open Source Hardware and Software project designed for Precision Cooking and Kitchen Automation for home cooks. The project is funded and managed by [WEkigai](https://wekigai.eu). The first product in the series is [Precius Station](https://wekigai.eu/precius), a commercially available precision cooktop.

## Vision
The project aims to create an eco system of open software and hardware designs for food preperation and automation for home cooks, funded by revenues generated by hardware sales and support.
The guiding principles of the project are:
- Openness : The hardware and software designs shall be available openly for modifications and customizations by end users.
- Unlocked : Commercially sold hardware shall be unencumbered with lock-ins, subscriptions or other financial or usability restrictions within the limits of product liability.
- Extendable, Repairable and Upgradable: Within the constraints of design and supply chain, the products will maximize the ability for the user to extend, repair or upgrade their products.

## Roadmap

The project is based on a milestone structure with the following milestones currently defined.
The software and design development will continue in parallel on Github.

| Milestone | Type | Status |
| Proof of principle | Development  | Completed in 2021  |
| Proof of concept | Development | Completed in 2024 |
| Publish on Github | Development | Completed Q1 2025 |
| First pre-commercial prototype | Development | Planned Q2 2025 |
| Setup signup list | Commercial | Planned Q1 2025 |
| Pre-manufacturing fundraising | Commercial | Planned Q2/Q3 2025 |
| Certification - alpha | Commercial |Planned Q4 2025 |
| Manufacturing - alpha | Commercial |Planned Q4 2025 |
| Alpha delivered| Commercial |Planned Q1 2026 |


## What is Precision Cooking and why is it important

## How does Precius Station Work

## Hardware Specifications

## Why Open Source?

## Licenses

## Contributing

## Development Progress
